Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United States
Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United States
DIET FOR LIVER
OVERVIEW
We live in a world where disease is everywhere, and becoming more prevalent by the day. This should
come as no surprise, as the environment we choose to surround ourselves with is extremely toxic. The
food we eat, the water we drink, the very air we breathe — all have become potentially hazardous to our
health. Equally worrying are the chemicals we use every day.
One could spend all day listing the toxins in our everyday lives, but the point remains: You do have a
choice. Instead of surrounding yourself in a toxic environment, unthinking, you can work toward
consciously surrounding yourself in as natural, clean, and chemically free an environment as possible. The
importance of detoxification is huge today, and there are a number of ways to cleanse your body and its
organs of the drastic amount of chemicals they accumulate and retain over the years.
The Liver Is Essential
This is about detoxing the body’s largest gland, the liver. It has a number of functions including, but not
limited to:
o 	Detoxifying the blood to rid it of harmful substances (like toxins, drugs, alcohol, steroids and more)
o 	Storing vitamins and iron
o 	Converting stored sugar to usable sugar when the body’s sugar levels fall below normal
o 	Producing bile, a substance needed to digest fats
o 	Breaking down hemoglobin as well as insulin and other hormones
o 	Destroying old red blood cells
The liver performs so many vital functions, but all this work renders it highly susceptible to disease
LIVER FRIENDLY FOOD
Garlic
Apple
Green Tea
Carrots & Beets
Lemon/Lemon Juice
Broccoli/Cabbage/Cauliflower/Spinach
ADD THESE MEALS IN YOUR DIET ON REGULAR BASIS
BEET + CARROT JUICE (Every Morning on empty stomach)
4-­‐5 Carrots
1/3 Beet
½ Lemon
LEMON WATER JUICE (2-­‐3 times a day in between the meals)
1 Lemon
400ml Cold water

-- 1 of 2 --

Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United States
Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United States
APPLE + WALNUTS (anytime snack a day)
1 Apple
28g Walnuts
GREEN TEA (2-­‐3 times a day in between the meals)
1 cup Green Tea
VEGETABLES (Lunch or Dinner, twice a week)
½cup Broccoli
½cup Cauliflower
½cup Cabbage
½ Tomato
½cup Spinach
EAT RAW UNCOOKED TWICE A WEEK
Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United States

-- 2 of 2 --

