Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United States.
Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United States.
OVERVIEW
Though the body height is determined genetically, it is also a well-­‐known fact that growth depends on certain
external factors and nutrition is one of them. Poor height can be a result of slow growth due to inadequate
nutrition. Following a balanced diet is absolutely essential for improving growth prospects, particularly during
the adolescence years to get a well-­‐built body. Proper food and exercise is required to achieve the optimum
height and body weight. Ensure that your body gets different types of nutrients in order to build strong
muscles, ligaments and tendons. A lot of calcium, minerals, vitamins and proteins should be included in your
diet.
Height is regulated by a kind of hormone called the Human Growth Hormone (HGH). It is secreted by the
pituitary gland, which increases the body height. Therefore, it is recommended to take foods that help the
HGH function. Here is what you need to your diet specifically as food for increasing height. (Keep in mind
height is genetics)
1. Proteins:
Proteins are the building blocks of our body and thus can help increase height by building various tissues.
There contain amino acids which are designed for growth hormones and are essential for maintaining healthy
bones, muscles, tissues, organs, skin and teeth. They also act as enzymes which stimulate the biochemical
reactions of the body such as digestion. Lack of protein can cause several health problems like muscle mass
loss, abnormal growth, weak immune system and inadequate mental development.
Therefore, carbohydrates should be replaced with foods that are rich in protein such as fish, eggs, milk, beans
and lentils. Protein is a necessary ingredient in a food to increase height.
2. Minerals:
Foods containing minerals like magnesium, phosphorus, fluoride, iodine, iron and manganese also play an
important role in increasing height and body growth.
Calcium is a vital mineral essential for the growth and maintenance of strong bones. Carbonated drinks,
excessive salts, sugar, fat and coffee should be restricted as they act as calcium inhibitors, thus adversely
affecting your growth. Illegal drugs and excessive smoking can also stunt your growth and have other
detrimental effects on your health.
3. Vitamins:
Vitamin D is vital for the development of strong and healthy bones and its deficiency can result in impaired
growth, weak bones and short statute. Moreover, it is required by the body for the absorption of calcium.
Apart from vitamin D, other vitamins like vitamin A, vitamin B1, vitamin B2 or riboflavin, Vitamin C or ascorbic
acid are also required for normal growth. These are mostly contained in fruits and vegetables.

-- 1 of 3 --

Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United States.
Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United States.
MEAL 1
-­‐½ cup Oats
-­‐10 Almonds
-­‐4 Boiled Eggs (1 whole +3 white)
-­‐240ml Fat Free Milk
-Milk is an excellent source of calcium which is vital for the
growth and maintenance of strong bones and acts as a height
booster.
-Eggs are the best source of protein which is imp for building
tissues and muscles.
-Oats are the best source of plant protein and complex carbs.
MEAL 2
-­‐1 cup Yogurt
-­‐1cup Papaya
-­‐1 Apricot
-Yogurt is rich source of Vitamin D and calcium which are
essential for growth. Deficiency in vitamin D can result in low
height gain.
-Fruits help in healthy growth of bones and contributes to the
height of a person. Besides increasing height, fruits and
vegetables play a crucial role in maintaining a healthy lifestyle.
MEAL 3
-­‐½ cup Brown Rice or Whole Wheat Pasta
-­‐½ cup pasta Sauce
-­‐100g Chicken or Fresh Paneer
(Add peas and carrots in pasta or brown rice)
Grains are the main sources of energy in our body which is
beneficial for proper growth.
Chicken are the best source of protein which is imp for building
tissues and muscles.
MEAL 4
-­‐300ml Non fat Milk (add 2sp Protinex)
-­‐1cup Roasted Soy beans
-­‐1cup Mango/Watermelon/Pomegranate
-Milk is an excellent source of calcium which is vital for the
growth and maintenance of strong bones and acts as a height
booster.
-The pure protein contained in soybeans, improve bone and
tissue mass
MEAL 5
-­‐½ cup Brown Rice or 1 Whole Wheat Chapati
-­‐100g Mixed Lentil
-­‐Salad (Cabbage, carrots, tomato)
-Grains are the main sources of energy in our body which is
beneficial for proper growth.
-Vegetables help in healthy growth of bones and contributes to
the height of a person. Besides increasing height, fruits and
vegetables play a crucial role in maintaining a healthy lifestyle
MEAL 6
-­‐300ml Non fat Milk 	-Milk is an excellent source of calcium which is vital for the
growth and maintenance of strong bones and acts as a height
booster.
Eat in every 2.5 hours

-- 2 of 3 --

Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United States.
Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United States.
WORKOUT TIPS:
1. Pull-­‐ups and Chin-­‐ups 3 times a week
Sets 3-­‐4.
Reps Maximum.
Do it before starting your main exercises.
2. Sprinting 3-­‐4 times a week.
Treadmill or Outdoor
15-­‐20mins
1minute sprint & 1 min walk (Keep doing it for 20mins)
3. Rope skipping 5 times a week
Sets 10 or 10-­‐15mins
Skipping as many as you can.
Do it after your workout as a finisher.
AVOID:
• 	Smoking
• 	Liquor
• 	Drugs
• 	Junk food
• 	High sugary food.
• 	Heavy Barbell or DB Shoulder presses
• 	Heavy Barbell Squats

-- 3 of 3 --

