ð
DRUG 	REHAB 	NUTRITION
ANTI-DRUG DIET PLAN BY GURU MANN

-- 1 of 5 --

DESIGNED & CREATED BY
GURU MANN	GURU MANN
CERTIFIED NUTRITIONIST
OVERVIEW:
This Nutrition program is designed for someone who is going through Drug Rehab treatment through
rehab centers or medications, etc. They need to follow the nutrition plan which will help to improve the
Brain functioning, production of Red Blood Cells, reproductive system & hormone imbalance, strengthen
the immune system, etc. During the drug addiction, it causes some pretty serious nutritional deficiencies.
Your body needs nutrients to heal. Providing your body with those missing nutrients is going to be crucial
to helping it cope with withdrawals and get back on track. Plus, when you’re feeling better, it’s much
easier to ignore cravings.
Your body needs fiber
While a multivitamin does help replace some nutrients if you’ve been eating poorly for a while, it can’t
sustain you long-term. Make sure you’re getting lots of vegetables, fruits, and whole grains. Not only will
the fiber keep your digestive system happy, but it also regulates your blood sugar. That means fewer
mood swings, and an easier time staying on course.
You don’t want to replace your addiction
Yes, sugar is the far lesser of two evils. But many people in recovery use sugar and caffeine to keep
feeling awake and alert. Over time, your brain will expect food to taste sweet, and the healthier foods just
won’t taste as good. Gaining more weight than is healthy can become a problem if you’re using sugar as
a substitute for your addiction.
DRUG EFFECT
Opiates
Opiates such as Heroin, Chitta affect the digestive system, and individuals addicted to these substances
will often deal with constipation, nausea, diarrhea, and vomiting. Because of this, individuals with opiate
addictions often have an electrolyte imbalance. Focusing on a high-fiber diet will help sort out the
gastrointestinal problems. Think vegetables, whole grains, and beans.
Alcohol
Alcoholism usually causes deficiencies in vitamin B6, thiamine, and folic acid. Individuals with alcoholism
also often have an imbalance of fluids, electrolytes, and protein. All of this can lead to damage in the live
and pancreas, as well as high blood pressure and seizures.
A recovering alcoholic will need a well-rounded diet to combat the often-severe malnutrition. Women who
have been heavy drinkers for a while will often benefit from calcium supplements as they’re at a high risk
for osteoporosis.
Stimulants
Stimulants such as cocaine, Crack and meth give a high that reduces appetite and the need for sleep.
Because of this, your body will likely need lots of liquid to combat dehydration, and all around better
nutrition. Staying up for extended periods of time can do a number on your body, and heavy stimulant use
can cause permanent memory damage. So eat food rich is Omega 3
Marijuana
Unlike other drugs, marijuana increases your appetite. However, this means you’ll often be eating foods
high in fat and sugar. During detox, your focus will be on scaling back your caloric intake and finding
balance with foods that nourish your body.

-- 2 of 5 --

DESIGNED & CREATED BY
GURU MANN	GURU MANN
CERTIFIED NUTRITIONIST
IMPORTANT NUTRIENTS
Water - Start with hydration
Alcohol is notorious for dehydrating the body, and many drug users do not feel the need to drink water
while using. Your body needs hydration to function well. In addition to lots of water, try electrolyte-packed
beverages such as Gatorade and coconut water as well, especially if you’ve been vomiting. If you’re able
to make an investment, consider getting a juicer to start getting fruits and vegetables to start getting
vitamins back in your system while you hydrate.
Eat your fruits and veggies
Aim for 4 to 5 servings every day. And don’t be afraid to have fun with this! There are tons of different
types of fruit out there. Not big on apples? Try mangos, Papaya, Grapes. A spinach salad with cucumber,
chopped walnuts, and a light vinaigrette (Red Vinegar) is easy to make and delicious.
Protein
Protein is a building block of a healthy body. It helps to repair the cells. Protein isn’t just in meat, a small
container of yogurt has about 11 grams, and a cup of dry beans has 16.
Multivitamin
A multivitamin can be extremely beneficial to kick-start your detox. Many people in recovery can benefit
from a multivitamin with zinc, Vitamin A, Vitamin C, and B-complex. You may even want to look into
homeopathic supplements like turmeric, milk thistle, and green tea.
However, be sure to talk to your doctor before trying adding vitamins to your diet. Every person’s body is
different, and you may need more of one nutrient than another. Also, certain vitamins can be harmful
depending on what else you’ve been taking.
It’s not drug cravings; you’re hungry
Many people who have been using drugs for a long time have forgotten how hunger feels. When your
body has a chance to recover, those feelings may come back in full force. If you’re craving something, it’s
likely not drugs, but just food. Stick to regular mealtimes. This will teach your body when to expect food
and help keep the hunger under control.
NUTRITION PLAN
DAYS 	FOOD
EVERYDAY 	DETOX TEA – Coriander Powder, Green Cardamom, Ginger, Basil Leaves, Honey
DAYS 	FOOD
MONDAY 	3 Eggs (1 whole Egg + 2 Egg Whites) – Scrambled Eggs, Add fresh Cilantro, Onion, Salt/Pepper
1 Orange
TUESDAY 	½ cup Oats – Add water the add 2sp almonds, 2sp raisins, ½ Apple
WEDNESDAY 	Whole Grain Muesli Cereals by Patanjali or Baggary’s
1 Apple
THURSDAY 	Banana Shake – Add 1 Banana, 240ml Milk & 1sp Peanut butter, Blend all.
FRIDAY 	3 Eggs Omelet with 1 whole wheat Chapati
SATURDAY 	Bread Toast - 2 Slice Wheat Bread+1sp peanut butter
1 Banana
SUNDAY 	4 Boiled Eggs (2whole+2white)
240ml Warm Milk
MEAL 1
UPON WALKING UP

-- 3 of 5 --

DESIGNED & CREATED BY
GURU MANN	GURU MANN
CERTIFIED NUTRITIONIST
DAYS 	FOOD
MONDAY 	1cup Milk – Add 2sp Protinex
28g Cashews
TUESDAY 	Banana Shake – Add 1 Banana, 240ml Milk & 1sp Peanut butter, Blend all.
WEDNESDAY 	Fruit Salad – Apple + Grapes + Orange + Kiwi + Pine Apple
THURSDAY 	1 cup Plain Yogurt (curd)
FRIDAY 	1cup Dry Roasted Soy Beans
1cup Tulsi Green Tea
SATURDAY 	Flaxseed pinni – Make it with Alsi, coconut oil, wheat flour, honey
SUNDAY 	1 Glass Fresh Orange Juice
15 Almonds
DAYS 	FOOD
MONDAY 	1 Bowl Black Lentil Soup – Cooked with less oil and spices
½ plate Carrots (Raw)
TUESDAY 	1 Bowl Orange Lentil Soup – Cooked with less oil and spices
½ plate Cucumber
WEDNESDAY 	Egg Bhurji (2whole+2white) – Add peas, green bell pepper, onions, etc.
1-2 Chapati
THURSDAY 	Rice Palo – Brown rice with cauliflower, potato, carrot cooked in less oil and less spices.
FRIDAY 	1 Bowl Mixed Lentil Soup – Cooked with less oil and spices
1 cup Yogurt
SATURDAY 	Mixed Vegetables – cooked in less oil and less spices
1-2 chapati
SUNDAY 	Chicken curry (or breast) – cooked in less oil and less spices
½ Rice or 1 Chapati
Salad – Cabbage or Lettuce, Tomato, Cucumber, Carrots.
DAYS 	FOOD
MONDAY 	1cup Dry Roasted Chickpeas
1cup Ginger Tea – No Milk
TUESDAY 	1 Glass Fresh Carrot Juice
15 Almonds
WEDNESDAY 	1cup Dry Roasted Chickpeas
1cup Ginger/Cinnamon Indian Tea with Milk
THURSDAY 	1 Glass Fresh Pomegranate Juice
1 Handful Walnuts
FRIDAY 	1 Glass Fresh Orange Juice
15 Almonds
SATURDAY 	Banana Shake – Add 1 Banana, 240ml Milk & 1sp Peanut butter, Blend all.
SUNDAY 	Fruit Salad – Apple + Grapes + Orange + Kiwi + Pine Apple
DAYS 	FOOD
MONDAY 	1 cup Kidney Beans – Cooked with less oil and spices
1cup Plain Yogurt
½ cup Brown Rice
Salad – Tomato, cucumber, carrots (Eat 30min before dinner)
TUESDAY 	1 cup White Channe – Cooked with less oil and spices
1cup Plain Yogurt
1-2 Roti
Salad – Tomato, cucumber, carrots (Eat 30min before dinner)
WEDNESDAY 	1 cup Black Channe – Cooked with less oil and spices
1cup Plain Yogurt
½ cup Brown Rice
Salad – Tomato, cucumber, carrots (Eat 30min before dinner)
THURSDAY 	1 cup Cauliflower – Cooked with less oil and spices
1cup Plain Yogurt
1-2 Roti
Salad – Tomato, cucumber, carrots (Eat 30min before dinner)
MEAL 2
MEAL 3
MEAL 4
MEAL 5

-- 4 of 5 --

DESIGNED & CREATED BY
GURU MANN	GURU MANN
CERTIFIED NUTRITIONIST
FRIDAY 	120g Fish – cooked in less oil and less spices
½ Rice or 1 Chapati
Salad – Lettuce, Tomato, Cucumber, Carrots (Eat 30min before dinner)
SATURDAY 	1 cup White Channe – Cooked with less oil and spices
1cup Plain Yogurt
1-2 Roti
Salad – Tomato, cucumber, carrots (Eat 30min before dinner)
SUNDAY 	1 cup White Channe – Cooked with less oil and spices
1cup Plain Yogurt
1-2 Roti
Salad – Tomato, cucumber, carrots (Eat 30min before dinner)

-- 5 of 5 --

