Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United states
Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United states
KETO DIET
OVERVIEW
A keto diet is well known for being a low carb diet, where the body produces ketones in the liver to
be used as energy. It’s referred to as many different names – ketogenic diet, low carb diet, low carb
high fat, etc. When you eat something high in carbs, your body will produce glucose and insulin.
Glucose is the easiest molecule for your body to convert and use as energy, so it will be chosen over
any other energy source.
By lowering the intake of carbs, the body is induced into a state known as ketosis. Ketosis is a
natural process the body initiates to help us survive when food intake is low. During this state, we
produce ketones, which are produced from the breakdown of fats in the liver.
The end goal of a properly maintained keto diet is to force your body into this metabolic state. We
don’t do this through starvation of calories, but through starvation of carbohydrates. Our bodies are
extremely adaptive to what you put into it – when you overload it with fats and take away
carbohydrates, it will begin to burn ketones as the main energy source.
NUTRITION
What you eat really depends how fast you want to get into a ketogenic state. The more restrictive you
are on your carbohydrates (less than 15g per day), the faster you will enter ketosis. Normally,
anywhere between 20-­‐30g of net carbs is recommended for every day dieting – but the lower you
keep your glucose levels, the better the overall results will be.
You might be asking, “What’s a net carb?” It’s simple really! The net carbs are your total dietary
carbohydrates, minus the total fiber. Let’s say for example you want to eat some broccoli (1 cup) –
seriously my favorite and most delicious vegetable out there.
• There are a total of 6g carbohydrates in 1 cup.
• There are also 2g of fiber in 1 cup.
• So, we take the 6g (total carbs) and subtract the 2g (dietary fiber).
This will give us our net carbs of 4g.
KETO MACRO’S
Your nutrient intake should be something around 70% fats, 25% protein, and 5% carbohydrate.
You want to keep your carbohydrates limited, coming mostly from vegetables, nuts, and dairy.
Don’t eat any refined carbohydrates such as wheat (breads, pastas, cereals, roti), starch (potatoes,
beans, channe, Lentils,) or fruit.
Dark green and leafy is always the best choice. Most of your meals should be a protein with
vegetables, and an extra side of fat. Chicken breast, paneer, fish, tofu with vegetables would be
awesome. If you’re finding yourself hungry throughout the day, you can snack on nuts, seeds, or
peanut butter to curb your appetite.
Benefits of a Keto Diet
• Cholesterol. A keto diet has shown to improve triglyceride levels and cholesterol levels most
associated with arterial buildup.
• Weight Loss. As your body is burning fat as the main source of energy, you will essentially be
using your fat stores as an energy source while in a fasting state.
• Blood Sugar. The decrease of LDL cholesterol over time and have shown to eliminate ailments
such as type 2 diabetes.
• Energy. By giving your body a better and more reliable energy source, you will feel more
energized during the day. Fats are shown to be the most effective molecule to burn as fuel.
• Hunger. Fat is naturally more satisfying and ends up leaving us in a satiated (“full”) state for

-- 1 of 2 --

Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United states
Guru Mann Fitness Inc.
United states
longer.
Acne. There will be a drop in acne lesions and skin inflammation over 12 weeks.
SAMPLE NUTRITION PLAN.
MEAL 1 -­‐ Omelet
2 Whole egg
3-­‐5 Egg whites
28g Peanuts
1cup spinach
MEAL 2
28g Almonds
1sp Whey in 240ml Water
Add 2sp Flaxseed
MEAL 3
120g Grilled Chicken
cooked in Olive Oil or coconut oil then add 1sp Chia seeds
1cup Boiled or Pan fried Broccoli
28g Peanuts
Salad
MEAL 4 – Smoothies
1sp whey
4sp peanut butter
2sp Chia seeds
MEAL 5: Bhurji
250g Paneer
2 Whole eggs
1 cup cabbage or lettuce with cucumber, tomatoes,
OR
200g Fish
2 boiled eggs
Salad
OR
250g Paneer cooked in Olive oil
1cup cooked cauliflower and peas
MEAL 6: Nuts
30-­‐50g Cashews
Designed & Created by
Guru Mann
Nutritionist
Kinesiology – Human Kinetic
Level-­‐III CERTIFIED

-- 2 of 2 --

